//Inspiration:dont tell me how to live my life ;fuck exams.
Backgorund: The year 2128 ...the world is divided into a bunch of sectors. A main sector controls all the other sectors .it contains all the data governing each sector as well as the Earth map were its showes all the sectors in the world....the location of the main sector is unkown for security purposes and it is not found on the system as well ...there's also a bunch of sectors tht exist on the map but not in real world "False sectors". Inside each sector there's a Main Buliding incharge of forcing the laws of the state onto the sector residents. perhaps the most important law here is the initiation law, which states: each resident of his/her respective sector is to have a chip implanted on top of his brain. this chip will evaluate the indivivual and when ever he breaks the laws applied the chip sends an electrical pulse through his body. the intensity of the pulse vary according to the sort of crime he/she committed ;incase of exaggerated crimes like murder or attempt of rebellion the pulse can be high enough to kill the carrier of the chip instantly ,the chip also keeps record of all the input data that enters your mind and also knows the exact coordinates of your current location and it keeps the main system updated with this infromation as well. However the chip does not take part in any of its operations when the mind is dormant i.e chip does nothing when your sleeping. 
Cyrus: Head of algorithm and problem solving committe (APSC) in the Capital Main Building. he's most credited for developing the Grim Reaper Algorithm and the Field Transfer Algorithm (FTA).
---it is worth noting that each sector is completely isolated from the outside world via a circualr giant walls so that people dont see the outside plain ..but they do how ever get sunlight and see the sky through the dome forcefield on top  of the circular walls. a complex underground maze connects the main building of the sector to the outside of the walls as well as to the initiation buildings.
FTA: in order for the government officials to access the main building send out chips or escape the to the outside of the walls they must go through the maze as  the main building does no have an enterance ...so they use the FTA to solve the maze each time they want to enter or leave the main building (as the maze is bio-miachanical so it reassembles it self after a certain time interval). The FTA is embedded to they're govermental chip found inside they're heads (yes government officials get chips too) and is activated only to the actual bearer of the chip so only he gets to see the solution of the maze and no one else.
Grim Reaper Algorithm: it got developed in case something went wrong in the main building of a certain sector....when the Grim Reaper Algorithm is activated it destroys the main building.

Builder Robots (NOT IN GAME): are immediatly called after the Grim Reaper Algorithm has been activated ..they enter the sector through the dome forcefeild to rebuild the main building and transport new authority.

Jonah: Lloyd (protagonist) 's brother. he's almost 18 yrs old so his initiation is due soon ..however he is more of a rebellious type and doesnt like doing what others force him to do ..to him initiation is equal to death ..so he decide's he's gonna escape. he goes to his cousin (a computer geek) and shares his intentions with him ...he's cousin agrees to help ,however Elliot(cousin) tells him he  there is no way to solve the maze algorithm (FTA) but if he were to enter the maze with a reference point on an (x,y,z) coordinate then he can calculate the diplacment on the 3 axes between his current location and his previous one .... so he will supply him with a tablet device onto which is a program to calculate the necessary data and a source program for exploding the armor it self so he can blow his way out of the maze ;he will also suply him with necessary weaponary to fight the bio-mechanical Mobs in the maze. his cousin then manages to hack into the system and /*quickly out of it with out being noticed  ..retreiving an armor design and a weapon design. he's able to print these designs via a bio-mechanical printer. On a late night later on Jonah and Elliot(Cousin) will go to an area near to the inititaion building and in order for Jonah to enter the maze Elliot will download a source program to one of the Chip Carriers' armor which will explode the armor once the input signal from the source supplied by elliot is equal to Null ,it is worth noting that elliot was able to understand the operating program of the current usable armor from the armor design he was able to hack.
